THE CLASSROOM.
>> IT'S A HUGE PROBLEM.
I MEAN WE LOSE 50% OF ALL NEW
TEACHERS IN THE FIRST THREE TO
FIVE YEARS.
>> Brown: AND WE CLOSE WITH SOME
HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES ON LAST
WEEK'S EXTRAORDINARY AND
LANDMARK DECISIONS AT THE
SUPREME COURT.
>> A HISTORIAN 50 YEARS FROM
NOW-- I THINK IT WOULD BE VERY
HARD FOR THEM TO WRITE ABOUT
THIS PERIOD WITHOUT WRITING
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED LAST WEEK--
THREE CASES PARTICULARLY THAT DO
HAVE THADS RETHAT RUN ALL THE
WAY THROUGH AMERICAN HISTORY.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: EGYPT'S NEW LEADER
CALLED FOR RECONCILIATION TODAY,
EVEN AS THE ARMY ARRESTED KEY
MEMBERS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD-- THE PARTY OF
DEPOSED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED
MORSI.
CHEERS OF CELEBRATION ERUPTED IN
TAHRIR SQUARE TODAY AS EGYPTIAN
MILITARY JETS FLEW IN FORMATION
OVER THE STREETS OF CAIRO,
MARKING THE INSTALLATION OF AN
INTERIM PRESIDENT.
STATE TELEVISION BROADCAST LIVE
THE SWEARING-IN OF ADLI MANSOUR,
THE FORMER CHIEF JUSTICE OF
EGYPT'S SUPREME CONSTITUTIONAL
COURT.
>> (translated): I VOW TO
SAFEGUARD THE REPUBLICAN SYSTEM
AND TO RESPECT THE LAW AND
CONSTITUTION AND TO LOOK AFTER
THE INTERESTS OF THE PEOPLE AND
TO PRESERVE THE INDEPENDENCE OF
THE HOMELAND AND ITS SAFETY.
>> Woodruff: MANSOUR VOWED TO
UPHOLD THE SPIRIT OF THE 2011
REVOLUTION.
>> (translated): THE GUARANTEE
OF THE CONTINUITY OF THE
REVOLUTION'S SPIRIT CARRIES THE
HOPE FOR US THAT THE VALUES OF
THIS REVOLUTION WILL BE UPHELD.
THE FIRST OF WHICH IS TO PUT AN
END TO THE IDEA OF WORSHIPPING
THE LEADER AND CREATING A HALF-
DIVINE ENTITY OUT HIM.
>> Woodruff: AND PROMISED TO
QUICKLY ORGANIZE NEW
PRESIDENTIAL AND PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS.
HE WAS CHOSEN BY THE NATION'S
MILITARY LEADERS YESTERDAY,
AFTER THEY DEPOSED PRESIDENT
MOHAMMED MORSI.
ANTI-MORSI DEMONSTRATORS
WELCOMED THE CHANGE IN
LEADERSHIP.
>> BUT IT IS THE MAJORITY OF THE
EGYPTIAN PEOPLE WHO FORCED THE
ARMY TO GIVE BACK THE RIGHT WE
GAVE TO MR. MORSI.
HE DIDN'T BEHAVE CORRECTLY SO
THAT WE TOLD HIM GIVE IT BACK TO
US AND WE ARE GOING TO CHOOSE
SOMEBODY ELSE.
>> Woodruff: BUT MORSI
SUPPORTERS DENOUNCED THE
MILITARY'S ACTIONS.
>> (translated): WE REJECT THE
RULE OF THE MILITARY.
WE WILL REJECT IT WITH PEACEFUL
MOVES BUT WE WILL CONFRONT IT,
BUT NOT WITH MOLOTOVS, LIKE THEY
DO.
BUT WE WILL NOT ALLOW THE STATE
TO GO BACKWARDS BY TENS OF
YEARS.
>> Woodruff: LATER, MANSOUR DID
OFFER AN OLIVE BRANCH TO MORSI'S
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD PARTY.
HE TOLD JOURNALISTS:
>> Woodruff: BUT WHILE
BROTHERHOOD OFFICIALS ASKED
SUPPORTERS NOT TO RESORT TO
VIOLENCE, THEY SAID THE GROUP
WOULD REFUSE TO WORK WITH THE
NEW POLITICAL SYSTEM.
MEANWHILE, EGYPTIAN SECURITY
OFFICIALS TOOK THE GROUP'S
SUPREME LEADER, MOHAMMED BADIE
INTO CUSTODY.
ONE OF MORE THAN 200 BROTHERHOOD
AND OTHER ISLAMIST LEADERS ON A
MILITARY WANTED LIST.
AND PLACED MORSI AND AT LEAST A
DOZEN OF HIS AIDES UNDER HOUSE
ARREST.
REACTIONS FLOODED IN FROM AROUND
THE REGION.
TURKEY AND TUNISIA WERE
CRITICAL: TUNISIA'S RULING
ENNAHDA PARTY RELEASED A
STATEMENT CONDEMNED THE ACTION,
CALLING IT A FLAGRANT COUP.
BUT IN SYRIA, PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL ASSAD PRAISED THE ACTION
SAYING IT MEANT THE END OF
POLITICAL ISLAM.
MEANWHILE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS TREADING
CAREFULLY IN ITS RESPONSE TO THE
DEVELOPMENTS IN EGYPT.
IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT, THE
PRESIDENT ACKNOWLEDGED THE
GRIEVANCES OF THE EGYPTIAN
PEOPLE BUT SAID HE WAS DEEPLY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE MILITARY'S
REMOVAL OF MORSI AND THE FUTURE
OF DEMOCRACY IN EGYPT.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESIDENT
OBAMA MET ON THIS HOLIDAY WITH
MEMBERS OF HIS NATIONAL SECURITY
TEAM TO DISCUSS THE SITUATION IN
EGYPT.
HIS STAFF HAS CONTACTED
OFFICIALS IN CAIRO TODAY.
FOR MORE ON WHAT EGYPT'S
LEADERSHIP CHANGE MEANS FOR THE
COUNTRY AND THE REGION, I'M
JOINED BY SHIBLEY TELHAMI, THE
ANWAR SADAT PROFESSOR OF PEACE
AND DEVELOPMENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND.
HIS LATEST BOOK IS "THE WORLD
THROUGH ARAB EYES: ARAB PUBLIC
OPINION AND THE RESHAPING OF THE
MIDDLE EAST."
AND HUSSEIN IBISH, A COMMENTATOR
AND BLOGGER WHO WRITES A WEEKLY
COLUMN ON THE MIDDLE EAST FOR
"FOREIGN POLICY" AND THE DAILY
BEAST.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
>> HUSSEIN IBISH, FIRST OF ALL
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THIS NEW
LEADERSHIP ARRANGEMENT IMPOSED
BY THE MILITARY?
>> WELL, WHAT IS MOST STRIKING
ABOUT IT IS THE DEGREE OF
CONSENSUS BEHIND IT.
I MEAN, I THINK YOU WOULD SEE A
MILITARY ACTION, A COUP, IN
EFFECT, COMING, BUT I THINK THIS
IS A UNIQUE KIND OF COUP,
BECAUSE ALMOST ALL OF THE OTHER
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL FORCES IN
EGYPT OTHER THAN THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD GAVE THEIR ASSENT TO
IT AND THAT'S VERY UNUSUAL, SO
IT IS SORT OF A COUP BY
ACCLAMATION AND THERE IS A
CONSENSUAL QUALITY TO IT THAT IS
EXTREMELY UNUSUAL IN A COUP.
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THIS
ARRANGEMENT?
>> I THINK IT REALLY HAD AN
ELEMENT OF CONSENSUS IN A
REVOLUTION BUT AN ELEMENT OF
COUNTER REVOLUTION, AN ELEMENT
OF, IT HAS ALL OF THESE THINGS
AND I HAVE THOUGHT OF THE
PROBLEM.  THERE IS A CONSENSUS
AMONG MORSI THAT HE HAD TO GO IN
MANY WAYS BUT THERE IS NO
CONSENSUS ON WHAT THEY WANT,
BECAUSE YOU HAD A LIBERAL
FACTION THAT WANTS TO SEE REAL,
GENUINE INCLUSIVE DEMOCRATIC
REFORM AND YOU HAVE PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO GO BACK TO SOMETHING
CLOSE TO WHAT THE NUMBER REC
REGIME WAS LIKE AND YOU HAVE THE
MILITARY AMONG WHOSE OFFICES
THERE ARE STILL MANY WHO WANT TO
ASSERT THEMSELVES SO YOU HAVE
ALL OF THE CONTRADICTIONS AND
TOES ARE LIKELY TO COME INTO
PLAY VERY QUICKLY.
WE SAW IT EVEN ON THE FIRST DAY
WHEN THE LIBERALS COULDN'T
POSSIBLY HAVE BEEN HAPPY WHEN
THE SECURITY FORCES SENT THEIR
FORCES TO THE MEDIA OUTLETS,
ESPECIALLY THE RELIGIOUS ONES
BUT ALSO AL JAZEERA AND PROVIDED
LEGITIMACY TO OF TO THE HEAD OF
THE LEGITIMATE RELIGIOUS FIGURE
IN EGYPT WAS THERE AT THE
DECREE, AND HE SAID, HE SAID,
WELL, I AM DOING THIS BECAUSE
THIS IS THE LESSER OF TWO EVILS.
>> THAT TELLS YOU SOMETHING
ABOUT THE QUALITY OF IT.
>> SO YOU DID HAVE, HUSSEIN
IBISH, YOU HAD THE LIBERALS AND
THE ULTRA CONSERVATIVES THAT ARE
STANDING WITH THE MILITARY WHEN
THEY MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT, DOES
IT GIVE IT MORE LEGITIMACY OR
NOT.
>> UNDOUBTEDLY MUCH MORE
LEGITIMACY, HOWEVER I THINK HE
MAKES A GOOD POINT, YOU CAN SEE
THE FISSURES ALREADY AND YOU MAY
WONDER IF THE LIBERALS ARE
UPSET, THEY SAY THEY ARE UPSET,
I HAD A CONVERSATION WITH ONE OF
THEM EARLIER TODAY AND A SENIOR
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL SALVATION
FRONT AND HE WAS UPSET AT SOME
OF THE REPRESSIVE STEPS THAT
HAVE BEEN TAKEN, SO I AGREE THAT
THERE IS CON ENUS IS ONLY ON A
VERY FEW THINGS, NEED TO REVISE
THE CONSTITUTION, A NEED FOR A
NEW ELECTIONS, AND A NEED TO GET
RID OF THE OLD GOVERNMENT, BUT
WHAT AFTER THAT, I THINK THERE
IS NO CONSENSUS.
>> SO DO YOU BELIEVE, SHOULD ONE
BELIEVE, SHIBLEY TELHAMI THE
MILITARY WHEN THEY SAY THIS IS A
TEMPORARY ARRANGEMENT OR GOAL IS
TO HAVE ELECTIONS AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
>> WHETHER YOU BELIEVE THEM OR
NOT, THEY UNDERSTAND THEY HAVE
LIMITS TO THEIR POWER AND THEY
LEARNED A LESSON YOU CAN SEE IT
FROM THE FIRST TRANSITION
BECAUSE THEY ARE NOT GOVERNING
DIRECTLY, THEY A APREPOINTING A
CIVILIAN PRESIDENT, THEY WANT A
TECHNOCRATIC GOVERNMENT AND
DISTANCING THEMSELVES, THEY SEE
THE MASSES, THEY SEE TELL MAHDI
ON THE STREET AND THEY CAN'T
POSSIBLY BE ASPIRING TO BE
ANOTHER TYRANT BECAUSE THEY
THOUGH THEY WILL FACE THE SAME
KIND OF REACTION.
>> IT IS A VERY DIFFERENT
SITUATION FROM WHAT YOU HAD.
>> WELL, THEY HAD THAT
EXPERIENCE OF A YEAR AND A HALF
IN DIRECT GOVERNANCE BETWEEN
MUBAREK AND MORSI AND THEY
DIDN'T LIKE IT, INSTITUTIONAL
PROBLEMS FOR THEM AND IT DAMAGED
THEIR REPUTATION, THEY DON'T
WANT TO GO BACK TO IT, THEY HAVE
CERTAIN SPHERES OF INFLUENCE
THEY NEED TO PROTECT OR WANT TO
PROTECT, CONTROL OVER DEFENSE
AND THE NATIONAL SECURITY, THEIR
SECRET BUDGET AND THEIR
UNCATALOGED SHARE THIS THE
NATIONAL ECONOMY, MAYBE
20 PERCENT OR SO OF THE GDP.
EVERYTHING ELSE THEY WOULD LIKE
TO LEAVE TO SOMEBODY ELSE TO
GOVERN.
THEY WANTED A PARTNER IN THE
MUSLIM BROTHERS, THEY THOUGHT
MAYBE THEY HAD ONE BUT THINK
FOUND OUT THEY ARE INEFFECTIVE.
>> SPEAKING OF THAT WAS IT
NECESSARY FOR THEM TO ARREST A
COUPLE OF HUNDRED CREDIT OF THE
LEADERSHIP OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD?
>> THA THAT IS ONE OF THE MAJOR
PROBLEMS UP FRONT YOU HAVE A
MESSAGE COMING FROM THE
APPOINTED PRESIDENT WHO SAYS WE
ARE INCLUSIVE AND INVITE THEM TO
PARTICIPATE AND HERE YOU HAVE
THE SECURITY FORCES RAIDING ALL
OF THESE MAJOR LEADERS OF THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD, IT IS A
MIXED MESSAGE WHICH IS WHY THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS TRYING
TO USE THAT AS A KIND OF A WAY
TO INFLUENCE EVENTS, GIVEN THEY
HAVE TO DECIDE ON WHETHER THIS
WAS A MILITARY COUP OR NOT TO
ABIDE BY THE AMERICAN LAW.
>> URGING THEM NOT TO DO IT BUT
THEY WENT AHEAD AND DID IT
ANYWAY, THEY WENT AHEAD AND MADE
THESE ARRESTS.
>> AND IT IS GOING TO BE
INTERESTING TO WATCH WHAT THE
NEW PRESIDENT DOES, WHO HAS THE
AUTHORITY TO DO IT, WHO IS
GIVING THE ORDERS, OBVIOUSLY THE
INTERIOR MINISTRY BUT DOES THE
NEW PRESIDENT HAVE THE AUTHORITY
TO SAY TO THEM, STOP OR IS THIS
COMING FROM THE MILITARY?  THERE
IS NO CONSTITUTION THIS PLACE
TODAY.
>> IS THERE REALLY A QUESTION
THOUGH ABOUT WHETHER THE
MILITARY IS RUNNING THINGS?
ISN'T IT CLEAR THEY ARE?
>> WELL, THEY ARE THE POWER
BEHIND THE ARRANGEMENT, THERE IS
NO DOUBT, BUT WHAT DECISIONS
THEY ARE MAKING IS CERTAINLY
OPENS A QUESTION.
I THINK THESE DECISIONS ARE RASH
AND IRRESPONSIBLE, THERE IS NO
NEED TORRE EMIVE REPRESSION,
WILL IS NOTHING THAT THE
BROTHERHOOD LEADERSHIP HAS DONE
SO FAR ORCA DELAYS ON THE STREET
THAT, A DRAIZ ON THE STREET THAT
WARRANT THIS.
>> WHY ARE THEY DOING IT?
>> I SUPPOSE IN ORDER TO PREEMPT
ANY NOTION THAT YOU COULD FIND
THE ISLAMISTS REACTING IN A
VIOLENT OR SUB SEARCH RECEIVE
WAY OR THERE IS A PART OF THIS
COALITION THAT WANTS TO TRY TO
DESTROY THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
AS AN INSTITUTION THIS WOULD BE
A TERRIBLE MISTAKE, BOTH SIDES
IN THIS EQUATION HAVE TO
RESTRAIN THEMSELVES, THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD CANNOT RESORT TO
VIOLENCE OR IT WILL CREATE A
CIVIL WAR BUT IF THE PRESIDENT
RULING FACTION CRACKS DOWN ON
THEM TOO MUCH, THEY WILL, THAT
WILL HAVE THE SAME EFFECT.
>> EXCUSE ME.
CAN ANY NEW ARRANGEMENT WORK,
THOUGH, SHIBLEY TELHAMI IF THEY
SAY WE ARE NOT GOING TO
PARTICIPATE?
>> THAT IS REALLY, IMMEDIATELY
THAT IS THE MAJOR QUESTION, IS
HOW WILL THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD
REACT?  AND HERE ARE THE
S.TION
ON THE FIRST -- THEY CERTAINLY
CAN TRY TO STAY PEACEFUL.
THEY HAVE BEEN LARGELY PEACEFUL.
THEY CAN STAY PEACEFUL, PUT
MASSES INTO THE STREETS, PLAY
THE SAME GAME THAT THE
OPPOSITION DID, PARALYZE THE
COUNTRY AND PUT PRESSURE, HAVE
THEM, YOU KNOW, ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
THEY ARE PART OF THE
INSTALLATION BUT ON THE OTHER
HAND, IF NOTHING HAPPENS AND
THEY ARE BEING ARRESTED, WE KNOW
THAT THERE HAVE BEEN OFFSHOOTS
OF THE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD THAT
HAVE BEEN MILITANT IN THE PAST
AND THIS COULD HAPPEN AGAIN,
THIS IS A DANGEROUS GAME BEING
PLAYED AND HOW THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD REACTS IS GOING TO
BE A CENTRAL, BUT ONE THING I
SAY IN TERMS OF THE HOPE, SOME
PEOPLE THINK THEY REALLY HAVE AN
INTERESTING COMING BACK TO PLAY,
BECAUSE THEY COULD WIN A
PARLIAMENTARY ELECTION GIVEN
GIVEN THE DISARRAY IN THE
OPPOSITION, THEY WOULDN'T DO IT
NOW --
>> IN OTHER WORDS IT IS NOT
CLEAR WHERE THE BALANCE IS?
>> IT IS NOT CLEAR WHERE THE
BALANCE IS BUT IT IS NOT GOING
TO HAPPEN IMMEDIATELY.
>> JUST VERY QUICKLY LESS THAN A
MINUTE, SHIBLEY A TELHAMI WE
DESCRIBED SOME OF THE REACTIONS
OF THE REACTION OF THE LEADERS
IN THE REGION, A SPLIT, WHAT
EFFECT DO YOU SEE ON THE REGION?
>> THIS IS A WAKEUP CALL TO THE
ISLAMISTS WITHIN THE REGION THEY
ARE NOT THE NATURAL
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE ARABS AND
THE MUSLIMS, THE FACTST OF
THE OTHER DEVOUT MUSLIMS DOESN'T
MAKE THEM MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD.
IT IS AN ILLUSION THAT THEY NEED
TO BREAK THEMSELVES FROM, AND I
THINK PEOPLE IN THE WEST --
>> WHAT COUNTRIES ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT?
>> I AM TALKING ABOUT ISLAMISTS
THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST.
>> TURKEY?
>> CERTAINLY THE TURKISH AKP AND
THEIR FOLLOWERS ARE NERVOUS
ABOUT THIS, ALL OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD GROUPS IN THE AREA
MUST BE SHOCKED AT THE EXTENT OF
UNANIMITY OF THE REST OF
EGYPTIAN SOCIETY REJECTION OF
MOHAMED MORSI, SO THEY ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO CONSIDER WHETHER, YOU
KNOW, LEARNING, LEARNING THE
SKILLS OF CONCILIATION AND
COMPROMISE AND CONSENSUS
BUILDING, WHICH THEY HAVEN'T
DONE AS IN ALL OF THESE YEARS IN
OPPOSITION AND CAME TO HAUNT
THEM IN EGYPT AND BROUGHT THEM
DOWN THE PACKET THEY COULDN'T DO
IT.
>> THE STORY MOVES ON, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH, IBISH AND TELHAMI.
>> PLEASURE.
>> PICKING UP ON
>> Brown: WE HAVE MORE ON WHAT
MORSI'S OUSTER COULD MEAN FOR
OTHER LAMIISST MOVEMENTS.
FIND THAT ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": PROVIDING MILITARY
AID TO REBEL FORCES; KEEPING
TEACHERS IN THE CLASSROOM AND
MAKING HISTORY AT THE SUPREME
COURT.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: AMERICANS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY AND AROUND THE WORLD
GATHERED TODAY TO CELEBRATE THE
NATION'S 237th ANNIVERSARY OF
INDEPENDENCE FROM GREAT BRITAIN.
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE
HURRICANE SANDY RAVAGED NEW YORK
LAST FALL, VISITORS WERE ALLOWED
TO CLIMB UP TO THE CROWN OF THE
STATUE OF LIBERTY THIS FOURTH OF
JULY HOLIDAY.
FIRST TIME WE
HAVE BEEN TO NEW YORK CITY AND
ATHOUGHT IT WOULD BE NICE TO BE
HERE ON JULY 4TH, SEE THE STATUE
OF LIBERTY.
>> THE
>> Sreenivasan: THE ICONIC
LANDMARK HAD BEEN CLOSED SINCE
THE STORM BATTERED LIBERTY
ISLAND WHERE THE STATUE STANDS.
THE FORCE FROM SANDY RIPPED UP
DOCKS AND WALKWAYS, AND LEFT
MOST OF THE ISLAND UNDER WATER.
BUT TODAY, AFTER MONTHS OF
AROUND-THE-CLOCK REPAIRS, NEW
YORK CITY MAYOR MICHAEL
BLOOMBERG JOINED FEDERAL
OFFICIALS AT A RIBBON CUTTING
CEREMONY.
>> ONE, TWO, THREE, HEY!
(APPLAUSE)
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE ON
NEARBY CONEY ISLAND, IN
BROOKLYN, A SOMEWHAT LESS SACRED
SYMBOL OF THE AMERICAN HOLIDAY,
THE HOT DOG, WAS THE SUBJECT OF
THE 98TH ANNUAL NATHAN'S
COMPETITIVE EATING CONTEST.
BUT AT MOST COOKOUTS NON-
COMPETITIVE EATING WAS THE NORM
AS AMERICANS GATHERED FOR
PICNICS AROUND THE COUNTRY.
IN WASHINGTON THERE WAS PLENTY
OF RED, WHITE AND BLUE AT THE
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE'S ANNUAL
PARADE DOWN CONSTITUTION AVENUE.
AT GEORGE WASHINGTON'S MOUNT
VERNON ON THE BANKS OF POTOMAC
RIVER, CROWDS ENJOYED EARLY
DAYTIME FIREWORKS, AHEAD OF
TONIGHT'S SHOW ON THE NATIONAL
MALL.
IN HIS WEEKLY ADDRESS, PRESIDENT
OBAMA URGED AMERICANS TO LIVE UP
TO THE WORDS OF THE DECLARATION
OF INDEPENDENCE AND THANKED U.S.
TROOPS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> YOU HAVE DEFENDED US AT HOME
AND ABROAD.
AND YOU HAVE FOUT ONGH OUR
NATION'S BEHALF TO MAKE THE
WORLD A BETTER, SAFER PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME OF THE
68,000 U.S. TROOPS STATIONED IN
KABUL, AFGHANISTAN CELEBRATED
THE HOLIDAY WITH SONG.
AND AT BAGRAM AIRBASE, OUTSIDE
OF KABUL, MORE THAN 30 TROOPS
TOOK THE OATH OF CITIZENSHIP.
SOME MILITARY BASES IN THE U.S.
WERE FORCED TO CANCEL OR SCALE
BACK CELEBRATIONS BECAUSE OF THE
AUTOMATIC BUDGET CUTS KNOWN AS
THE SEQUESTER.
ONE PLACE THE CELEBRATIONS
DIDN'T STOP WAS BOSTON, WHERE
SECURITY WAS TIGHT AS LARGE
CROWDS GATHERED FOR THE FIRST
TIME SINCE THE BOSTON MARATHON
BOMBINGS IN APRIL.
CREWS AT THE SCENE OF A DEADLY
WILDFIRE IN ARIZONA MADE MORE
PROGRESS TODAY CONTAINING THE
BLAZE.
THE YARNELL FIRE-- BURNING
NORTHWEST OF PHOENIX-- IS NOW
45% CONTAINED WITH NEARLY 700
FIREFIGHTERS WORKING AROUND THE
CLOCK.
FIRE INFORMATION OFFICER SUZANNE
FLORY DESCRIBED THE OPERATION'S
MAIN FOCUS TODAY.
>> WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE DOING
WHAT WE CALL A MOP UP, MAKING
SURE HOT SPOTS ARE OUT AROUND
STRUCTURES.
WE'RE DOING THIS MAYBE EVEN A
LITTLE MORE THAN WE NORMALLY DO
BECAUSE THERE ARE SO MANY
STRUCTURES INVOLVED.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THOSE
AREAS ARE CLEAR SO THAT FOLKS
CAN GET BACK HOME AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE SAME
TIME, AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE
DEATHS OF 19 FIREFIGHTERS IN
YARNELL OVER THE WEEKEND IS
ALREADY UNDERWAY.
INITIAL AUTOPSY FINDINGS
RELEASED TODAY SHOWED THE
FIREFIGHTERS DIED OF BURNS AND
INHALATION PROBLEMS.
CHRYSLER ANNOUNCED FIVE SEPARATE
RECALLS THAT AFFECT 840,000
VEHICLES.
MOST OF THEM ARE IN THE U.S.
FOUR OF THE RECALLS INVOLVE
ELECTRONIC ISSUES, BUT THE
LARGEST IS A RECALL OF 490,000
CARS AND S.U.V.'S THAT HAVE
PROBLEMS WITH THEIR ACTIVE-
RESTRAINT HEAD RESTS IN REAR-END
COLLISIONS.
SINCE JUNE, CHRYSLER HAS ISSUED
TWO RECALLS INVOLVING SOME FOUR
MILLION VEHICLES.
A FAMILY DISPUTE OVER THE LEGACY
OF FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN
PRESIDENT NELSON MANDELA
DEEPENED TODAY.
THE REMAINS OF HIS THREE
DECEASED CHILDREN WERE REBURIED
AT THEIR ORIGINAL GRAVESITE
AFTER A COURT ORDER.
MANDELA REMAINS IN THE HOSPITAL
ON LIFE SUPPORT, IN CRITICAL BUT
STABLE CONDITION.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JONATHAN
MILLER OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: THE MANDELA CORTEGE
ARRIVED BACK IN QUNU THIS
AFTERNOON.
AND, HAVING BEEN DUG UP TWICE
NOW, THE REMAINS OF THREE OF
NELSON MANDELA'S CHILDREN WERE
LAID TO REST FOR A THIRD TIME
BACK IN THE ANCESTRAL GRAVEYARD.
THERE'SN UR AGENCY TO THIS.
COURT PAPERS NOW REVEAL THAT
DOCTORS ADVISED THE FAMILY IT'S
TIME TO TURN OFF THE LIFE
SUPPORT.
THE CHIEF OF THE CLAN, NELSON
MANDELA'S HEIR MANDLA IS ON THE
WARPATH THERE.
20 MILES DOWN THE ROAD IN MVEZO
HE LASHED OUT AT HIS FEUDING
FAMILY WHICH HAS INFLICTED A
HUMILIATING LEGAL DEFEAT ON
MANDELA IN THE BATTLE FOR THE
BONES AND WHERE THE GREAT
PATRIARCH SHOULD BE BURIED.
>> IT SEEMS LIKE ANYONE AND
EVERYONE CAN COME AND SAY I AM A
MANDELA AND DEMAND TO BE PART OF
THE DECISION-MAKING IN THIS
FAMILY.
>> Reporter: IN COURT, MANDLA'S
AUNT MAKAZIWE MANDELA AND 15
OTHER FAMILY MEMBERS ACCUSED HIM
OF ILLEGALLY EXHUMING THE
REMAINS.
HE'S BRANDED HER A SHAMELESS
PROFITEER AND ACCUSES MAKAZIWE
OF SUING HER DYING FATHER FOR
CONTROL OF HIS MONEY.
YESTERDAY POLICE FORCED THEIR
WAY INTO MANDLA'S ESTATE AT
MVEZO ON THE HUNT FOR BODIES.
HE'S BUILT A PALACE AND CULTURE
VILLAGE HERE.
THE REST OF THE FAMILY SUSPE
HERE TOO IN A MANDELA THEME
PARK.
MANDELA DENIES THIS.
HE'S SAYS IT'S THE REST OF THE
FAMILY THAT'S CASHING IN ON THE
MANDELA BRAND NAME.
SO THE GREAT RECONCILIATOR WHO
TAUGHT A WHOLE NATION NOT TO
FIGHT, PERILOUS NOW TO DO
ANYTHING ABOUT HIS OWN WARRING,
FAMILY.  THANKFULLY IT SEEMS
UNAWARE.
>> Sreenivasan: MANDELA HAS BEEN
HOSPITALIZED SINCE EARLY JUNE
FOR A RECURRING LUNG INFECTION.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: WE RETURN NOW TO
SYRIA.
IN AN INTERVIEW PUBLISHED TODAY,
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD SAID
THAT ONLY DIRECT FOREIGN
MILITARY INTERVENTION CAN
THREATEN HIS GOVERNMENT.
HE ADDED THAT HE BELIEVED THAT
WOULD NEVER HAPPEN.
WHILE DIRECT INTERVENTION
REMAINS OFF THE TABLE FOR THE
UNITED STATES, THERE HAS BEEN A
CHANGE TO STRENGTHEN ASSAD'S
ENEMIES ON THE BATTLEFIELD.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS ON THOSE
EFFORTS AND MOVES TO BACK REBELS
IN PAST CONFLICTS.
>> Warner: THREE WEEKS AGO THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, IN A
POLICY SHIFT, ANNOUNCED IT WOULD
PROVIDE WHAT IT CALLED
"DRAMATICALLY INCREASED
ASSISTANCE"  SOMTOE ELEMENTS OF
THE SYRIAN REBELS.
SINCE THEN, WHITE HOUSE
OFFICIALS HAVE OFFERED FEW
DETAILS ON WHAT THE MILITARY AID
WOULD LOOK LIKE.
DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR
BEN RHODES OKE SPPUBLICLY ABOUT
IT ON JUNE 14TH.
>> I CAN'T GIVE YOU A SPECIFIC
TIMELINE OR AN ITEMIZED LIST OF
WHAT THAT ASSISTANCE IS AND WHEN
IT WILL GET THERE.
WHAT WE WANT TO DO WITH OUR
ASSISTANCE IS STRENGTHEN THEIR
EFFECTIVENESS SOHAT  TTHEY HAVE
BETTER CAPABILITIES AS THEY ARE
PURSUING THEIR EFFORTS WITHIN
SYRIA.
WE WANT TO STRENGTHEN THEIR
>> Warner: THE DECISION CAME
AFTER U.S. INTELLIGENCE
DETERMINED THAT, "THE ASSAD
REGIME HAS USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS
ON A SMALL SCALE AGAINST THE
OPPOSITION MULTIPLE TIMES IN THE
LAST YEAR."
THAT CROSSED A RED LINE SET BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA EARLIER.
THE MOVE ALSO FOLLOWED THE FALL
OF THE STRATEGIC REBEL-HELD TOWN
OF QUSAIR NEAR THE LEBANESE
BORDER, SEEN AS A SIGN THAT
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD'S
FORCES, BACKED BY HEZBOLLAH
FIGHTERS, WERE REGAINING
MOMENTUM.
EARLY REPORTS INDICATED THAT THE
U.S. ASSISTANCE WOULD BE LIMITED
TO SMALL ARMS AND AMMUNITION
THAT DREW CRITICISM FROM ARIZONA
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN.
>> THESE PEOPLE, THE FREE SYRIAN
ARMY, NEED WEAPONS, HEAVY
WEAPONS, TO COUNTER TANKS AND
AIRCRAFTS THEY NEED A NO-FLY
ZONE, AND BASHAR ASSAD'S AIR
ASSETS HAVE TO BE TAKEN OUT AND
NEUTRALIZED.
>> Warner: BUT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS CONCERNED THAT
HEAVY WEAPONS INTENDED FOR THE
FREE SYRIAN ARMY REBEL FORCE
COULD END UP WITH MORE RADICAL
JIHADI REBELS, LIKE THOSE OF THE
AL-QUAEDA LINKED AL-NUSRA FRONT.
THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME THE
U.S. HAS PROVIDED SUCH AID.
FOR EXAMPLE, DURING THE LAST
DECADE OF THE COLD WAR, IN THE
1980s, THE U.S. FURNISHED ARMS
AND TRAINING TO THE NICARAGUAN
CONTRAS AS WELL AS TO THE
MUJAHADDIN FIGHTING THE SOVIET
OCCUPATION OF AFGHANISTAN.
>> SO WHAT DOES HISTORY SAY
ABOUT HOW SUCCESSFUL THE U.S.
HAS BEEN IN ARMING REBEL
OPPOSITION MOVEMENTS?  ON THAT,
WE GET TWO VIEWS, MICHAEL PILL
BURY ASSISTANT UNDERSECRETARY OF
DEFENSE DURING THE REAGAN
ADMINISTRATION, HE WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR COORDINATING
COVERT AID TO THE AFGHANISTAN
NEW A JA DEAN IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST THE SOVIETS AND NOW A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE HUDSON
INSTITUTE AND STILL ADVISE IT IS
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT .. AND ROBERT
DREYFUSS IS A JOURNALIST AND
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR AT THE
NATION, AND AUTHOR OF THE BOOK,
DEVIL'S GAME, HOW THE UNITED
STATES HELPED UNLEASH
FUNDAMENTALIST ISLAM AND WELCOME
TO YOU BOTH.
BOB DRY FEW, BEGINNING WITH YOU
AS THE U.S. EMBARKS ON ARMING
THE SYRIAN REBELS, WHAT HAS BEEN
THE TRACK RECORD IN THE PAST OF
SUCCESS OR FAILURE IN DOING
THIS?
>> .. WELL IT IS A MIXED RECORD
TO SAY THE LEAST.
WE CAN POINT TO AFGHANISTAN AS
THE PRIMARY EXAMPLE OF WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN THE UNITED STATES
KIND OF BUMBLES INTO A COUNTRY
THAT IT REALLY DOESN'T
UNDERSTAND THE DYNAMICS OF, AND
UNLEASHES A FORCE IT DOESN'T
CONTROL.
YOU COULD SAY THE SAME THING
ABOUT ANGOLA DURING THE SAME
PERIOD, DURING THE REAGAN
DOCTRINE ERA, WHEN WE TRIED TO
BACK REBEL GROUPS IN THAT
COUNTRY AGAINST WHAT WAS THEN A
PRO SOVIET GOVERNMENT, BUT IN
BOTH CASES YOU ARE UNLEASHING A
DEVILISHLY COMPLEX FORCE THAT
YOU DON'T CONTROL, YOU DON'T
COMMAND, AND WHICH IS SOMETHING
THAT YOU ARE TAKING A HUGE RISK
IN FUNNELING ARMS AND MONEY INTO
A GROUP LIKE THAT.
>> MICHAEL, IS IT -- HAS HISTORY
PROVEN THAT IT IS REALLY A RISK
AND IN FACT LEADS TO MORE
PROBLEMS?  I MEAN, TAKE THE
AFGHAN EXAMPLE, WHICH YOU WERE
INTIMATELY INVOLVED.
>> I WOULD SAY IT IS POSSIBLE TO
SUCCEED.
PESSIMISTS OFTEN PEARL LIES
ACTION SO IT IS IMPORTANT TO SEE
THE RISKS ..
>> WELL, DO YOU THINK ARMING THE
AFTEAFGHAN RESISTANCE WAS, IN TE
END, SUCCESSFUL OR SUPPORTS THE
HISTORY, HAS THE HISTORY SHOWN
ULTIMATELY THAT MANY OF THOSE
SAME MUJAHEDIN BECAME THE CORE
OF AL QAEDA WHICH BECAME A SWORN
ENEMY AND DANGEROUS ENEMY TO THE
UNITED STATES?
>> WELL, YOU PAY THE TALIBAN,
THEY BECAME THE CORE, SOME PARTS
OF THE PEOPLE WE WORKED WITH AND
AIDED AND GAVE MONEY TO, DID, IN
FACT, BECOME TALIBAN LEADERS.
BUT THE MAJORITY BECAME PART OF
THE GOVERNMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
TODAY, INCLUDING PRESIDENT
KARZAI, ARE A HEAP WARDAK, HIS
DEFENSE MINISTER FOR SIX YEARS,
SO, NO, WE END UP UNLEASHING
FORCES WE COULDN'T CONTROL.
WE ENDED UP SUPPORTING THE
EVENTUAL VICK TORS, BUT FAR
FEWER PEOPLE HAD TO DIE THAN IF
WE HAD DONE NOTHING.
>> IN AFGHANISTAN, IN PARTICULAR
.. IT WASN'T JUST THE TALIBAN
BUT ACTUALLY BECAUSE WE WERE
TWICE REMOVED FROM THAT, WE WERE
FUNNELING OUR MONEY INTO THE
PAKASTANIS WHO THEN, IN TURN,
DISTRIBUTED THE MONEY AND THE
ARMS TO THE REBELS, A BIG CHUNK,
IN FACT THE MAJORITY OF THE
CHUNK OF THE MONEY AND SUPPORT
WE WERE GIVEN WENT TO ONE OF THE
LEADERS OF THE PARTY THAT IS
LITERALLY FIGHTING US TODAY IN
EASTERN AFGHANISTAN.
WE HELPED CREATE AL QAEDA BY
SUPPORTING THE ISLAMIST WHOSE
RALLIED AROUND OSAMA BIN LADEN'S
ROLE IN AFGHANISTAN IN THE LATE
1980S.
BY GOING INTO AFGHANISTAN, WE
LED TO A CATASTROPHIC CIVIL WAR,
WHICH BROKE THE COUNTRY APART
FOR FIVE YEARS AFTER THE SOVIETS
LEFT, AND THEN LED TO THE
TALIBAN REGIME, AND EVERYTHING
THAT HAS HAPPENED SINCE THEN.
>> LET ME GET MIKE PILLSBURY
BACK IN THIS.
IN THIS CASE, THE ADMINISTRATION
IS TRYING TO ARM THE GOOD GUYS
AMONG THE SYRIAN REMEMBERS, THAT
IS, THE ONES WHO ARE THE
ORIGINAL SUNNI OPPOSITION WHO
ARE NOT ISLAMISTS TO STRENGTHEN
THEM AGAINST I DIDN'T A
DIFFICULT MINED REBELS, HAVE WE
EVER ATTEMPTED THAT KIND OF --
MAKING THAT KIND OF FINE
DISTINCTION AND WITH ANY
SUCCESS?  WAS THAT A PROBLEM IN
AFGHANISTAN?
>> YES, IT WAS.
THERE WAS .. A PROBLEM INVOLVING
THE PAKASTANIS HAVING A
PREFERENCE FOR THE MORE I DIDN'T
A DIFFICULT MINDED MUJAHEDIN AND
TRYING TO SUPPORT THOSE WHO HAVE
BEEN TRAINED IN THE WEST AND
MORE SECULAR IN ORIENTATION,
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF LESSONS
THAT WERE LEARNED BY PRESIDENT
REAGAN'S EFFORT WITH THE AFGHAN
REBELS.
ONE OF THEM WAS, THE FIRST FIVE
YEARS WE MADE MANY MISTAKES, THE
PROGRAM WAS TOO SMALL, THE
WEAPONS WERE SINGLE SHOT, WORLD
WAR I RIFLES, THER THERE WAS NO
POLITICAL COORDINATION.  THE
SECOND FIVE YEARS WHEN WE WERE
SUCCESSFUL AND PRESIDENT OBAMA
COULD LEARN LESSONS FROM WHAT TO
DO ABOUT SYRIA.
>> AND THE LESSONS ARE THAT YOU
HAVE TO -- IF YOU ARE GOING TO
GO IN YOU GO ALL IN?
>> EXACTLY.
>> WE GOT MUCH MORE INVOLVED
WITH THE AFGHAN REBELS.
>> WE HELPED THEM PLAN MISSIONS,
WE SHARED INTELLIGENCE WITH THEM
ABOUT WHAT WERE THE MOST
VULNERABLE TARGETS THAT WOULD
KILL ALMOST NOBODY BUT THE
TARGETS THEMSELVES, WOULD SO
IMPRESS THE OTHER SIDE THAT THE
WAR WOULD END SOONER.
THAT'S THE KIND OF INTELLIGENCE
INFORMATION THAT THE SYRIAN
REBELS NEED.
>> BOB DREYFUSS?
>> YES, BY ALL ACCOUNTS, WE JUST
KNOW THAT THESE SYRIAN REBELS,
THE MAJORITY OF THEM, ARE, IN
FACT, ONE OR ANOTHER STRAIN OF
RADICAL ISLAMISTS ESPECIALLY THE
BEST FIGHTERS AND THE IDEA THAT
WE UNDERSTAND SYRIA WELL ENOUGH
TO VET AND PICK AND CHOOSE WHICH
OF THESE REBELS GROUPS TO
SUPPORT IS LUDICROUS.
WE DIDN'T UNDERSTAND IRAQ WHEN
WE WENT IN THERE, WE DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND AFGHANISTAN.  IN 2001
WHEN WE WENT IN THERE, I WOULD
ARGUE WE STILL DON'T AND WE
CERTAINLY DON'T UNDERSTAND SYRIA
IN TERMS OF ITS INTERNAL
DYNAMICS.
I DON'T SEE WHAT THE UNITED
STATES HAS TO GAIN BY SUPPORTING
REBELS, ESPECIALLY WHEN THERE IS
A DIPLOMATIC PATH OUT OF THAT,
AND THAT WOULD START, BY THEY
WITH US PUTTING PRESSURE ON
QATAR AND SAUDI ARABIA TO WIND
DOWN THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE
REBELS AND THEN DRAW THEM AND
ASSAD INTO THIS GENEVA PEACE
CONFERENCE WHICH THE UNITED
STATES AND RUSSIA ARE TRYING TO
PUT TOGETHER.
AND IRAN COULD PLAY A ROLE IN
THAT TOO.
>> AND MIKE PILLSBURY FINAL
QUICK THOUGHT ON YOU ON THE
POINT THAT MR. DREYFUSS JUST
RAISED THAT AT THE VERY LEAST
YOU HAVE TO HAVE GREAT
COORDINATION AND COMMON PURPOSE
WITH YOUR ALLIES IN THIS.
>> YES.
>> AND NOT BE AT CROSS PURPOSES?
>> YOU ALSO HAVE TO FOCUS ON
HUMANITARIAN.
>> YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
>> I AGREE WITH THAT, THAT WAS
IN THE SECOND FIVE YEARS, WHERE
THE SUCCESS CAME FROM BUT YOU
ALSO HAVE TO FOCUS ON
HUMANITARIAN SIDE, YOU SEE
STANDING ASIDE, DOING WHAT BOB
DREYFUSS RECOMMENDS WE STAND
ASIDE AND DO NOTHING WE ARE NOT
GOING TO HAVE A PEACEFUL
CEASE-FIRE, A MILLION PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO DIE.
THAT IS THE REASON FOR THE
INTERVENTION, I SUPPORT WHAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS DECIDED, AND
I THINK BOB DREYFUSS AND OTHERS
BETTER GET ON BOARD, THAT DEBATE
IS OVER.
WE ARE INVOLVED NOW.
THE QUESTION IS, HOW TO BE
EFFECTIVE, HOW TO WIN.
>> WELL I THINK UNFORTUNATELY
THIS DEBATE IS OVER BUT THANK
YOU BOTH, MIKE PILLSBURY AND BOB
DREYFUSS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A COMING
CRISIS IN THE CLASSROOM, AS MORE
TEACHERS EXIT THE PROFESSION.
A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION IS
COMBATING THE HIGH TURNOVER
RATES BY MENTORING NEW TEACHERS.
OUR STORY COMES FROM ASHAR
QURAISHI OF WTTW CHICAGO.
>> Reporter: WALK IN TO ABBY
MILLER'S THIRD GRADE CLASS AT
SUMNER ELEMENTARY SCHOOL ON
CHICAGO'S WEST SIDE AND YOU'D
NEVER GUESS THIS IS HER FIRST
YEAR TEACHING.
>> IF HE PUTS THEM IN TEN ROWS,
HOW MANY CHAIRS SHOULD HE PUT IN
EACH ROW?
GET TO WORK.
I'M SETTING THE TIMER FOR SIX
MINUTES.
>> Reporter: SHE EXUDES THE
CONFIDENCE AND AUTHORITY OF AN
OLD HAND IN FRONT OF HER
SOMETIMES UNRULY EIGHT-YEAR OLD
STUDENTS.
>> MY MOM AND I HAVE THIS
RUNNING JOKE THAT IN MY FIRST
YEAR OF TEACHING I ACTUALLY HAVE
15 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: STILL, IT'S BEEN A
TOUGH YEAR FOR MILLER AND FOR
THE CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOL
DISTRICT AS A WHOLE.
>> WHOSE CHOICE WAS THIS?
RAHM'S CHOICE!
>> Reporter: THE YEAR BEGAN WITH
A BITTER DISPUTE BETWEEN THE
CHICAGO TEACHERS UNION AND MAYOR
RAHM EMANUEL OVER WAGES, TEACHER
EVALUATIONS AND CLASS SIZE.
IT WAS THE DISTRICT'S FIRST
STRIKE IN 25 YEARS.
AND THEN THE CITY'S
CONTROVERSIAL DECISION TO CLOSE
MORE THAN 50 ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS
SPARKED RENEWED OPPOSITION FROM
TEACHERS.
THE CLOSINGS THIS FALL WILL BE
THE NATION'S LARGEST EVER.
AMIDST ALL THE VERY PUBLIC
DISRUPTIONS, ABOUT 100 CHICAGO
PUBLIC SCHOOLS SUFFER FROM
CHRONICALLY HIGH RATES OF
TEACHER TURNOVER, LOSING A
QUARTER OR MORE OF THEIR
TEACHING STAFF EVERY YEAR.
AS A RESULT THERE ARE THOUSANDS
OF NEW TEACHERS, LIKE ABBY
MILLER WHO ARE TRYING TO TAKE
CHARGE OF A CLASSROOM FOR THE
FIRST TIME.
>> HOW COME EVERY TIME WE COME
BACK FROM MATH LAB HALF THE
CLASS HAS LOST THEIR PENCIL?
TO SAY IT'S A CHALLENGE IS AN
UNDERSTATEMENT.
>> I KIND OF HAD A FALSE SENSE
OF WHAT I WAS GETTING MYSELF
INTO.
YOU CAN STUDY IT IN A CLASSROOM,
YOU CAN SAY "OH WELL, IF THIS
STUDENT DOES THIS, THEN YOU
SHOULD DO THIS, IF THIS STUDENT
DOES THAT, THEN YOU SHOULD DO
THAT", BUT REALLY IT DEPENDS ON
WHERE YOU TEACH, IT DEPENDS ON
WHO YOU TEACH, THINGS THAT
WORKED FOR MY FIFTH GRADERS AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR, DON'T
WORK OVER HERE, THINGS THAT WORK
OVER HERE WITH THE THIRD
GRADERS, DIDN'T WORK WITH MY
FIFTH GRADERS, AND I HAVE A
STRONG FEELING THAT THINGS THAT
WORKED THIS YEAR ARE NOT GOING
TO WORK NEXT YEAR.
>> Reporter: HER EXPERIENCE OF
TRIAL BY FIRE IN THE CLASSROOM
IS INCREASINGLY COMMON.
A RECENT NATIONAL STUDY FOUND
THAT THE TEACHING WORKFORCE IS
GETTING YOUNGER AND LESS
EXPERIENCED.
MAKING MATTERS WORSE IS A
TSUNAMI OF RETIRING VETERAN
TEACHERS.
BETWEEN 2004 AND 2008 MORE THAN
300,000 VETERAN TEACHERS LEFT
THE WORKFORCE FOR RETIREMENT.
WALK INTO ANY CLASSROOM IN THE
COUNTRY TODAY AND YOU'RE MORE
LIKELY TO FIND A TEACHER IN
THEIR FIRST YEAR OF TEACHING
THAN ANY OTHER EXPERIENCE LEVEL.
AND THEY'RE NOT STICKING AROUND.
AT THE CORE OF THE CRISIS SAY
EXPERTS IS THAT FIRST YEAR
TEACHERS ARE PARTICULARLY
VULNERABLE WHEN IT COMES TO
BUCKLING UNDER THE PRESSURE AND
FRUSTRATIONS THEY ARE SOMETIMES
ILL-PREPARED TO FACE ONCE THEY
TAKE TO THE CLASSROOM.
>> IT'S A HUGE PROBLEM.
I MEAN WE LOSE 50% OF ALL NEW
TEACHERS IN THE FIRST THREE TO
FIVE YEARS.
>> Reporter: ELLEN MOIR SAW THE
PROBLEM FIRST HAND.
AS A DIRECTOR OF TEACHER
EDUCATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SANTA CRUZ SHE FOUND
THAT SUCCESS WAS ELUDING EVEN
HER BEST AND BRIGHTEST STUDENT
TEACHERS.
>> THEY SAID, "OH MY GOSH, I
THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO BE A
GREAT TEACHER AND I'M NOT.
I FEEL LIKE A FRAUD, I SHOULDN'T
T A MINUTE,OING THIS WORK."
THERE'S SOME DISCONNECT HERE IF
YOU COULD REALLY GET A GREAT
TEACHER ED. PROGRAM AND YOU TEE
SOMEONE UP FOR THEIR FIRST YEAR
OF TEACHING.
WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?"
>> Reporter: INEVITABLY SHE SAYS
THESE TEACHERS FACED SOME OF THE
TOUGHEST ASSIGNMENTS, IN SOME OF
THE COUNTRY'S TOUGHEST SCHOOLS,
AND THEY WERE LEFT TO SINK OR
SWIM.
TO COMBAT THAT, SHE FOUNDED THE
NEW TEACHER CENTER-- A NON-
PROFIT EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION
THAT FOCUSES ON FIRST-YEAR
TEACHER MENTORING AND
DELOPMVEENT LED BY SKILLED,
VETERAN TEACHERS.
>> TELL ME ABOUT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN
CHALLENGING LATELY.
>> Reporter: LARISSA BENNETT IS
ONE OF THOSE EXPERT TEACHERS AND
HAS BEEN MENTORING ABBY MILLER
FOR THE BETTER PART OF THE LAST
SCHOOL YEAR.
MENTORS LIKE BENNETT MEET ONE-
ON-ONE WITH THEIR APPRENTICES TO
PROVIDE PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT, LEADERSHIP
TRAINING, AND SPECIFIC ADVICE ON
CLASSROOM MANAGEMENT.
>> THEY DID JUST BELOW WHAT I
EXPECTED AND IT WAS HARD NOT TO
SEE THAT AS A REFLECTION UPON MY
TEACHING.
SO, THAT WAS A TOUGH DAY.
>> WE WANT THEM TO KNOW THAT
THEY HAVE SOMEONE THAT THEY CAN
GO TO.
TEACHERS THAT FEEL SUPPORTED,
THAT FEEL APPRECIATED AND
VALUED, STAY IN THE PROFESSION.
SO IF WE CAN GET TO THOSE
TEACHERS THEIR FIRST YEAR AND
MAKE THEM FEEL THOSE THINGS,
GIVE THEM THE TOOLS TO SUCCEED,
THEY WOULD STAY.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO THAT
SUPPORT BENNETT SAYS TEACHERS IN
BIG DISTRICTS LIKE CHICAGO N'TDO
HAVE THE LUXURY OF TAKING MONTHS
AND YEARS TO BECOME EFFECTIVE.
>> WE NEED THEM GREAT YESTERDAY.
SO WE HELP THEM DEVELOP SKILLS
AND STRATEGIES TO TEACH IN THESE
DIFFICULT AREAS.
>> Reporter: THE HIGH DROPOUT
RATE FOR NEW TEACHERS IS ALSO
EXPENSIVE.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE PRICE-TAG
ASSOCIATED WITH RECRUITING,
HIRING, AND TRAINING A
REPLACEMENT TEACHER IS
SUBSTANTIAL.
IT'S ESTIMATED THAT EVERY TIME A
TEACHER WALKS OUT THE DOOR IN
CHICAGO, IT COSTS THE DISTRICT
ABOUT $18,000 TO REPLACE THEM.
ACCORDING TO A REPORT FROM THE
NATIONAL COMMISSION ON TEACHING
AND AMERICA'S FUTURE THE TOTAL
COST OF TURNOVER IN THE CHICAGO
PUBLIC SCHOOLS IS ESTIMATED TO
BE OVER $86 MILLION A YEAR.
NATIONALLY THAT FIGURE TOPS MORE
THAN $7 BILLION ANNUALLY.
SU AND YOU WANT TO MAKE RE
YOU'RE ASKING THOSE MENTORING
QUESTIONS, RIGHT?
YOU KNOW, I'M WONDERING IF HAVE
YOU THOUGHT ABOUT DOING IT THIS
WAY?
YOU KNOW, COULD IT BE POSSIBLE
THAT?
THINK ABOUT WHERE THE TEACHER IS
IN THEIR PRACTICE.
>> Reporter: NEW TEACHER CENTER
MENTORS MEET REGULARLY WITH
OTHER EXPERT TEACHERS TO DISCUSS
PROTOCOLS FOR SUPPORTING THEIR
FIRST YEAR TEACHERS.
THEY PARTNER WITH SCHOOL
DISTRICTS AND EDUCATORS TO HELP
IMPLEMENT BEST PRACTICES FOR NEW
TEACHER INDUCTION.
>> AS THE COUNTRY'S TALKING
ABOUT DEVELOPING TEACHERS, I
THINK THERE'S A MUCH GREATER
UNDERSTANDING AND RECOGNITION
THAT REALLY TALENTED TEACHERS
ARE NOT BORN, THEY'RE MADE.
AND WE HAVE TO BE SYSTEMATIC
ABOUT IT AND WE NEED TO REALLY
BUILD OFF OF THE TALENT THAT WE
HAVE IN OUR SCHOOL SYSTEMS.
>> Reporter: THE NEW TEACHER
CENTER HAS FINANCIAL SUPPORT
FROM NUMEROUS FOUNDATIONS AS
WELL AS THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION.
IT'S ONE OF THE LARGEST TEACHER
MENTORING RESOURCES IN THE
NATION.
TODAY THE ORGANIZATION REACHES
OVER 15,000 NEW TEACHERS, IN ALL
50 STATES WITH ABOUT 7,000
EXPERT TEACHERS AND IS BEING
MODELED IN COUNTRIES LIKE
SINGAPORE, FINLAND, SCOTLAND,
AND PANAMA.
AND MOIR SAYS IT'S WORKING.
>> IT'S A GREAT IDEA AND IT'S
SUPER SUCCESSFUL.
I MEAN LOOK IT'S HARD TO MEASURE
TEACHER EFFECTIVENESS BUT LET ME
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
RETENTION SIDE OF THE EQUATION.
WE'RE EASILY UPPING RETENTION BY
20% IN THE DISTRICTS THAT WE'RE
WORKING IN.
IN 24 OF THE LARGEST URBAN
DISTRICTS I MEAN RETENTION IS UP
SIGNIFICANTLY.
>> Reporter: AND FOR TEACHERS
LIKE ABBY MILLER WHILE THIS YEAR
H TEASSTED HER RESOLVE SHE SAYS
THE MENTORING HAS HELPED HER
RETAIN THE GRIT THAT GOT HER
INTO TEACHING IN THE FIRST
PLACE.
>> RIGHT NOW I SEE MYSELF STILL
TEACHING.
THERE IS A REASON THAT I DECIDED
TO COME INTO TEACHING, YOU KNOW
IT'S TOUGH, THERE ARE DAYS WHERE
I COME HOME AND THROW MY ARMS
AND SAY I'M DONE, I'M NOT DOING
IT ANYMORE, BUT THOSE ARE IN THE
RARITY AND THERE ARE MORE DAYS I
HELPED THIS KID LEARN THIS
TODAY.
>> Reporter: USING A GRANT FROM
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
THE NEW TEACHER CENTER PLANS TO
EXPAND IN CHICAGO WITH A FOCUS
ON HIGH-POVERTY SCHOOLS.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
JULY 4th VIEW OF AMERICA,
THROUGH LAST WEEK'S LANDMARK
DECISIONS AT THE SUPREME COURT.
TWO WERE SEEN AS VICTORIES FOR
GAY RIGHTS ADVOCATES AND ANOTHER
STRUCK DOWN A KEY PROVISION OF
THE 1965 VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
FOR SOME LONG-VIEW PERSPECTIVE
ON THE COURT AND ITS RULINGS,
YESTERDAY I SAT DOWN WITH FOUR
HISTORIANS.
>> AND JOINING ME ARE ELLEN
FITZPATRICK, POLITICAL HISTORIAN
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW
HAMPSHIRE, KENNETH MAC, WHO
SPECIALIZES IN CIVIL RIGHTS
HISTORY, AND RACE RELATIONS AT
HARVARD LAW SCHOOL, GEORGE
CHANCY A HISTORIAN AT YALE
UNIVERSITY WHO HAS WRITTEN
WIDELY ON THE GAY RIGHTS
MOVEMENT AND SERVED AS AN EXPERT
WITNESS IN THE SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
CASES DECIDED LAST WEEK, AND
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN MICHAEL
BESCHLOSS, AND MICHAEL LE LET ME
ASK YOU TO SET THE FRAME FOR US
TO START OFF HERE.
THE SUPREME COURT IN ONE WEEK
TACKLING MAJOR ISSUES THAT
RESONATE THROUGH AMERICAN
HISTORY.
>> YES, YOU KNOW, OFTENTIMES YOU
GO THROUGH A WEEK LIKE THIS AND
THERE MAY BE CASES THAT ARE
INTERESTING NOW BUT NOT LIKELY
TO BE WRITTEN ABOUT LATER ON,
THE HISTORIAN 50 YEARS NOW IF
THEY ARE WRITING A GENERAL
POLITICAL HISTORY OF THE UNITED
STATES I THINK WILL BE VERY HARD
FOR THEM TO WRITE ABOUT THIS
PERIOD WITHOUT WRITING ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENED LAST WEEK, THREE
CASES PARTICULARLY THAT DO HAVE
TO RUN ALL THE WAY THROUGH
AMERICAN HISTORY.
>> KEN NET MAC DID YOU SEE A
BROAD THEME IN THESE CASES
EITHER IN THE KIND OF ISSUES
THEY WERE TACKLING OR IN THE OUT
COMES?  ..
>> YES, I AGREE WITH MICHAEL
BESCHLOSS, THAT HISTORY WAS
INVOKED IN ACTUALLY ALL OF THE
CASES, HISTORY TO INVALIDATE A
SECTION OF THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT, HISTORY IN THE SENSE THAT
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS SAYS
VOTING DISCRIMINATION OF THE
KIND THAT THIS SECTION WAS
TRYING TO ATTACK IS HISTORY, IT
IS PART OF THE PAST.
AND HISTORY INVOKED TO STRIKE
DOWN THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE
ACT, WHEN JUSTICE KENNEDY
CLEARLY IS SAYING THAT THE FACT
THAT CERTAIN STATES SEEM TO BE
MOVING TO PROTECT GAY MARRIAGE
IS A MOVEMENT OF HISTORY, THAT
THE COURT IS GOING TO
ACKNOWLEDGE AND IN PART BASE ITS
OPINION ON THAT.
>> GEORGE COMAWNS SITUATE, THE
SAME QUESTION TO YOU WHAT STRUCK
YOU WATCHING THESE CASES,
PARTICULARLY THE ONE YOU WERE
MOST INTERESTED IN, AND INVOLVED
IN JUXTAPOSED AGAINST SOME OF
THE OTHERS?
>> WELL, THERE WERE OF COURSE
VARYING MIXED DECISIONS IN TERMS
OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS, ONE REALLY
N'TCA OVERSTATE THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE MARRIAGE DECISION,
BECAUSE MARRIAGE IS HISTORICALLY
BEEN SUCH AN IMPORTANT SYMBOL OF
PEOPLE'S EQUALITY AND FULL
CITIZENSHIP, SLAVES COULDN'T GET
MARRIED, JEWS COULDN'T MARRY
NONJEWS IN NAZI GERMANY AND
JUSTICE KENNEDY REALLY SPOKE TO
THAT IN HIS DECISION, WHICH
SPENT A LOT OF TIME TALKING
ABOUT DOMA AND INFRINGEMENT ON
THE EQUALITY OF GAY PEOPLE AND
GIVING THEM SECOND-CLASS
MARRIAGES, AND THEN AGAIN IN A
VOTING RIGHTS ACT, TALKING AS IF
HISTORY WAS BEHIND US AS IF THE
PROBLEM OF RACE IN AMERICA WERE
OVER.
>> AND ELLEN FITZPATRICK, BRING
YOU INTO IT.
GIVE US A FIRST GENERAL
OVERVIEW, WHAT DID YOU SEE?
>> I THINK PROBABLY THE MOST
RELEVANT POINT TO REFER TO IS
JUSTICE KENNEDY'S COMMENT THAT
IN THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE CASE
THAT THESE REALLY REFLECT
EVOLVING UNDERSTANDINGS IN
COMMUNITIES OF THE MEANING OF
EQUALITY, AND ALL OF THESE
CASES, I THINK, IN SOME SENSE,
REALLY TOUCH ON THAT QUESTION.
WHAT ARE OUR FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS
HOHOW SHOULD THEY BE ENFORCED?
AND HAVE WE REACHED A POINT OF
PROGRESS IN OUR SOCIETY WHERE WE
NO LONGER NEED THE KIND OF
SUPERVISION THAT THE
RECONSTRUCTION AMENDMENT, THE
FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT REALLY PUT
INTO THE HANDS OF CONGRESS, HAS
EQUALITY HE INVOLVED TO THAT
POINT WHERE THAT IS NO LONGER
NECESSARY?  IN THE MARRIAGE
CASE, OBVIOUSLY, SAYING THAT NEW
UNDERSTANDINGS IN STATES AND IN
COMMUNITIES DO FORCE REALLY THIS
ISSUE, AND THE IMPORTANCE OF
ACKNOWLEDGING THE DIGNITY OF
THIS RIGHT.
>> MICHAEL, ACTUALLY, THAT WORD
EVOLVING IS WHAT I WANT TO PICK
UP ON BECAUSE WE TALK A LOT HERE
ABOUT THINGS THAT SEEM SETTLED
AT ONE POINT AND, AT ONE MOMENT
AND THEN UNSETTLE AND A WE GET
TO WATCH IT.
>> IN HISTORY THERE IS AN
ARGUMENT THAT NEVER ENDS AND
THAT'S THE WAY IT SHOULD BE.
>> IN THE BEGINNING WHEN WHAT
THE SUPREME COURT SHOULD REALLY
DO, THERE WAS A MINORITY OF
ES
CLOISTERED AND NOT KNOWING WHAT
IS GOING ON WITHIN SOCIETY AND I
THINK YOU HAVE TO SAY IF THESE
JUSTICES, FOR INSTANCE, ON
MARRIAGE EQUALITY HAD BEEN
SEQUESTERED SOMEWHERE AND NOT
AWARE OF CHANGES WITHIN AMERICAN
SOCIETY OVER THE LAST TEN, 20,
30 YEARS, THIS DECISION MIGHT
NOT HAVE COME ABOUT AND IT WAS,
TO SOME EXTENT, FOR THAT REASON,
A SURPRISE.
>> AND KENNETH MAC, PICK UP ON
THAT .. BECAUSE ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS IN A MOMENT LIKE THIS
IS THE COURT LEADING THE WAY
THIS IS IT FOLLOWING THE WAY?
DOES IT WATCH WHAT GOES ON IN
THE SOCIETY AT LARGE?
>> WELL, THE CONSENSUS AMONG
CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLARS TODAY IS
THAT THE COURT, IF IT LEADS, IT
LEADS ONLY SLIGHTLY, THAT IT
VERY MUCH FOLLOWS WHAT IS GOING
ON IN LARGER SOCIETY AND, IN
FACT, IT ALWAYS HAS, AND IT IS
NOT AT ALL SURPRISING TO SEE
ATTITUDES TOWARDS GAY MARRIAGE
EVOLVING DRAMATICALLY BETWEEN
THE ENACTMENT OF THE DEFENSE OF
MARRIAGE ACT AND TODAY, AND TO
TO SEE THE SUPREME COURT, THE
SUPREME COURT'S COURT APPROACH
TO THIS ISSUE DRAMATICALLY, THE
CONSENSUS AMONG SCHOLARS THAT
STUDY THE SUPREME COURT IS THAT
THIS KIND OF THING IS
ESSENTIALLY WHAT THE COURT DOES,
IF IT IS AHEAD IT IS A LITTLE
AHEAD, AND IT IS VERY MUCH
EMBEDDED IN THE LARGER WORLD
AROUND IT.
>> WELL, GEORGE CHAUNCEY IN THE
CASE OF SAME-SEX MARRIAGE THERE
CERTAINLY WAS A LOT OF
COMMENTARY IN THE LAST, WELL,
WEEKS, MONTHS, YEARS EVEN ABOUT
HOW QUICKLY THINGS HAVE SEEMED
TO HAVE EVOLVED IN THE CULTURE.
IS THAT THE REALITY OR IS THAT
JUST HOW IT APPEARS AT A MOMENT
LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, THERE OBVIOUSLY HAS
BEEN A PRETTY DRAMATIC SHIFT IN
PUBLIC OPINION IN THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS, BUT WE NEED TO
REMEMBER THAT MARRIAGE HAS BEEN
FOUGHT FOR A LONG TIME AND ONLY
REALLY BECAME AN ISSUE FOR GAY
ADVOCATES IN THE LATE EIGHTIES
WHEN THE AIDS CRISIS AND THE
FACT THAT GROWING NUMBERS OF
WOMEN WERE HAVING CHILDREN
TOGETHER, CONFRONTED WITH THE
FACT THAT THEIR RELATIONSHIPS
WEREN'T RECOGNIZED BY THE LAW,
AND THEY SUDDENLY HAD TO DEAL
WITH HOSPITALS THAT WOULDN'T
RECOGNIZE THEM AND FUNERAL HOMES
AND ADOPTION AGENCIES, AND SO
THE MARRIAGE MOVEMENT GREW OUT
OF THAT IN THE NINETIES BUT IT
WAS IMMEDIATELY CONFRONTED WITH
VERY POWERFUL RESISTANCE IN 1996
THIS HAS BEEN MENTIONED, IN THE
HEIGHT OF A PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN WHEN IT FIRST JUST
LOOKED LIKE ONE STATE MIGHT MAKE
MARRIAGE LEGAL AND WHY CONGRESS
OVERWHELMING I WILL PASSED THE
DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT AND PLEA
CLINTON SIGNED IT, AND IN 1993
WHEN MASSACHUSETTS BECAME THE
FIRST STATE TO GIVE MARRIAGE
RIGHTS IT PRODUCED A FIRESTORM
OF OPPOSITION AND FINALLY 41
STATES PASSED CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS OR BOTH THAT GRANTED
MARRIAGE TO A MAN AND WOMAN THIS
HAS BEEN STRUGGLED OVER IN A
PRETTY INTENSE WAY FOR 30 YEARS,
AND IN THE LAST DECADE IT HAS
REALLY JUST IN THE LAST FEW
CAREERS WE HAVE BEGUN TO SEE
MOVEMENT TOWARDS A GROWING
POPULAR SUPPORT FOR MARRIAGE
EQUALITY.
>> AND JUST TO STAY WITH YOU FOR
A MOMENT, WHAT IS YOUR THEORY ON
THE QUESTION I ASKED THE OTHERS
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS WITH THE
COURT IN A MOMENT LIKE THIS?
ARE THEY FOLLOWING THE CULTURE,
LEADING THE CULTURE IN SOME
SENSE?  WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> WELL, I THINK THEY ARE DOING
A BIT OF BOTH.
YOU SIMPLYANDERESTIMATE
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE COURT
RULING THAT GAY COUPLES, GAY
MARRIED COUPLES SHOULD BE
TREATED THE SAME AS HETEROSEXUAL
MARRIED COUPLES AND KENNEDY'S
LANGUAGE OF QUALITY AND DIGNITY
REALLY RESONATE AND AT THE SAME
TIME, AND I THINK THAT ONLY
WOULD HAVE HAPPENED IN THE
CONTEXT WHERE 12 STATES HAD
ENACTED MARRIAGE, MOST OF THEM
BY LEGISLATIVE ACTION,
REFERENDA, AND AT THE SAME TIME
THE COURT DID NOT SETTLE THE
MARRIAGE DEBATE FOR GOOD, IT
RETURNS THE DECISION TO
CALIFORNIA SO PEOPLE CAN GET
MARRIED IN CALIFORNIA NOW, BUT
THERE ARE STILL 37 STATES WHERE
PEOPLE CAN'T GET MARRIED, 30 OF
THEM HAVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS PROHIBITING THEM FROM
DOING SO-SO THIS IS SOMETHING WE
WILL BE FIGHTING FOR YEARS TO
COME AND THE COURT WASN'T READY
TO INTERVENE.
>> AND ELLEN FITZPATRICK GO
AHEAD AND WEIGH IN ON THIS
QUESTION OF LEADING AND
FOLLOWING AND WHERE ARE WE IN
THE EVOLUTION?  YOU STARTED WITH
THAT WORD YOURSELF.
>> YES.
>> I AGREE WITH PROFESSOR MAC
THAT THE SUPREME COURT IS
GENERALLY IF YOU LOOK AT ITS
LONG HISTORY QUITE A
CONSERVATIVE INSTITUTION,
OCCASIONALLY IT IS IN ADVANCE OF
SOCIETY BUT RARELY IS THAT THE
CASE.
IT USUALLY IS REACTING TO LONGER
TERM  THE COUNTRY
ITSELF.
ONE THING, THOUGH, THAT I THINK
WE SHOULD FEEL LESS OPTIMISTIC
ABOUT IN LOOKING AT THESE
DECISIONS IS THE VOTING RIGHTS
ISSUE.
THAT IS, IN THIS INSTANCE, IT
SEEMS TO ME THAT THE COURT HAS
TAKEN QUITE AN ACTIVIST STANCE
IN ARGUING THAT CONGRESS HAS
OVERREACHED IN THE VARIOUS RULES
THAT IT HAS PUT INTO PLACE IN
SUPERVISING, USING THE POWER OF
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
SUPERVISE ELECTIONS PARTICULARLY
IN THE SOUTH, WHERE THERE HAS HF
INFRINGEMENTS ON THE RIGHT TO
VOTE.
AND IT IS FAR FROM, IT SEEMS TO
ME, THOSE INFRINGEMENTS ARE FAR
FROM A DEAD LETTER, AND YET THE
COURT SEEMS TO BE JUDGING THE
HISTORY OF THE LAST CENTURY IN A
VERY POSITIVE WAY, AND ARGUING,
REALLY, THAT THOSE KINDS OF
SAFEGUARDS ARE NOT NECESSARY.
IF WE LOOK AT IT IN THE BROADEST
IMPLICATIONS OF WHAT THEY ARE
SAYING, AND THAT, I THINK, IS A
READING OF RECENT HISTORY THAT
CERTAINLY JUSTICE GINSBURG TOOK
VERY STRONG EXCEPTION TO,
EVOKING THE VERY SAME HISTORY,
BUT READING IT IN A LESS
OPTIMISTIC WAY.
>> BUT DIDN'T, MICHAEL, I MEAN
IN IS ANOTHER ISSUE THAT HAS
REVERBERATIONS IN THE PAST WHICH
WE LEAD TO ACTIVISM BY THE
JUDGE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
>> YES.
AND THAT GREW OUT OF 1965, THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT, THAT WAS ONE
OF THE CROWN JEWELS OF THE
JOHNSON ADMINISTRATION UNDER THE
EARL WARREN, VERY PROGRESSIVE
COURT, LEADING ON AT LEAST THE
COURT'S SIDE A VERY DIFFERENT
PERIOD NOW AND I THINK EVEN THE
MOST DISPASSIONATE PERSON WOULD
REALLY HAVE TO SAY THIS IS A
ROLL OF THE DICE IF WE ARE
LOOKING AT THIS 50 YEARS FROM
NOW IT WILL EITHER BE THIS
DECISION MEANT THAT VOTING
RIGHTS ONCE AGAIN BEGAN TO GET
RESTRICTED THROUGH THE COUNTRY
OR IT WORKED.
>> KENNETH MAC WHAT WHAT DO YOU
THINK OF THAT ON THAT DECISION?
BUT ALSO THIS QUESTION OF
JUDICIAL ACTIVISM ON ONE SIDE OR
THE OTHER, AND HOW THAT TOO
EVOLVES?
>> YES.
YOU NOTICE ACTUALLY ON BOTH OF
THE DECISIONS, THE GAY MARRIAGE
ONE AND THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT,
THE MAJORITY ESSENTIALLY
INVALIDATED AN ACT OF CONGRESS,
AND THE DISSENTS BOTH INVOKED
JUDICIAL ACTIVISM, IT IS JUST
THAT THE TWO SIDES WERE SWITCHED
WITH ONE VOTE SWITCHING SIDES TO
MAKE THE MAJORITY IN EACH CASE.
SO IT IS A STANDARD RHETORIC IN
THE SUPREME COURT THAT MANY,
MANY DISSENTING GROUPS OF
JUSTICES EVOKE JUDICIAL
ACTIVISM.
THESE ARE BOTH END OF TERM
CASES.
THEY ARE THE LAST CASES THE
SUPREME COURT DECIDED THIS TERM.
THESE KIND OF CASES ARE USUALLY
THE CASES WHERE THE JUSTICES ARE
VERY DECIDED, WHERE OFTEN THE
DECISIONS ARE NOT NECESSARILY
BASED ON CLEAR PRECEDENT, BUT ON
THE MAJORITY OF THE JUSTICES
FEEL FOR WHERE THE LAW SHOULD
GO.
AND IN THAT SENSE THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT DECISION AND THE GAY
RIGHTS ACT -- GAY MARRIAGE
DECISIONS ARE BOTH JUDICIAL
ACTIVIST DECISIONS.
ONE THING I WOULD NOTE IS THAT
THE VOTING RIGHTS DECISION, THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT WAS
RE-AUTHORIZED IN 2006, BUT
OVERWHELMING MAJORITIES IN BOTH
HOUSES OF CONGRESS SIGNED BY
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH, VERY,
VERY DIFFERENT, THE GAY MARRIAGE
DECISION IT SEEMS TO ME, THE
PRESIDENT AND -- MANY, MANY
STATES WERE MOVING IN THAT
DIRECTION, SO IN THE VOTING
RIGHTS DECISION, THE COURT
OVERRULED WHAT WAS, YOU KNOW, A
CONSENSUS AMOK TWO BRANCHES OF
GOVERNMENT, AND A VERY REACHING
CONSENSUS.
>> WELL, GEORGE CHAUNCEY, YOU
WERE STARTING TO SAY BEFORE THAT
YOU THINK THAT THERE IS FAR MORE
TO COME HERE, PARTICULARLY ON
THE MARRIAGE QUESTION.
THIS HISTORY IS CERTAINLY FAR
FROM OVER, RIGHT?
>> OH, YES, ABSOLUTELY.
AND I JUST SAY TO THE LAST
QUESTION, I IT IS CLEAR THAT
JUSTICE KENNEDY WAS REALLY
THINKING ABOUT THE ISSUE OF
BECOME ACCUSED OF JUDICIAL
ACTIVISM THIS HAS BEEN A
MARRIAGE THEME IN THE MARRIAGE
DEBATE AND A HANDFUL OF JUDGES
GRANTING MARRIAGE RIGHTS IN FACT
IT IS THE FIRST THREE STATES
THAT ACQUIRED GAY MARRIAGE
RIGHTS, THE SAME-SEX COUPLES
THROUGH COURT DECISIONS AND NOW
CALIFORNIA, AND THE OTHER TEN
STATES HAVE DONE SO THROUGH
LEGISLATION AND POPULAR
REFERENDA BUT THIS MARRIAGE
ISSUE WILL CONTINUE TO BE WAGED
STATE BY STATE FOR YEARS TO
COME, AND ALTHOUGH THE PRESS HAS
FOCUSED ON MARRIAGE FOR LOTS OF
GOOD REASONS, GIVEN ITS
SYMBOLISM AND PRACTICAL EFFECT
THERE ARE MANY OTHER ISSUES THAT
GAY RIGHTS ACTIVISTS ARE WORKING
ON, THE ENDEMIC BULLYING OF KIDS
WHO ARE IDENTIFIED AS QUEER IN
SCHOOLS ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
REALLY COMPLEX LEGAL AND
CULTURAL ISSUES AT THAT
TRANSGENDER PEOPLE FACED, THE UP
SURGE IN NEW HIV INFECTIONS
AMONG YOUNG GAY AND BISEXUAL MEN
AND THE FACT THAT CONGRESS
ITSELF HAS STILL NOT PASSED A
FEDERAL LAW BANNING
DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT.
SO IT IS NOT LIKE THE MARRIAGE
ISSUE HAS BEEN SETTLED ITSELF OR
EVEN IF IT WERE, THAT GAY RIGHTS
WOULD HAVE BEEN A DONE DEAL BY
NOW.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO LEAVE IT THERE
AND THANK YOU ALL FOR, GEORGE
CHAUNCEY, ELLEN FIT FITZPATRICKN
NET MAC AND MICHAEL BESCHLOSS,
THANK YOU ALL VERY
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
EGYPT SWORE IN AN INTERIM LEADER
AND THE MILITARY ROUNDED UP A
NUMBER OF THE TOP MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD MEMBERS.
THE STATUE OF LIBERTY REOPENED
ON THIS FOURTH OF JULY HOLIDAY,
EIGHT MONTHS AFTER SUPERSTORM
SANDY FORCED IT TO CLOSE.
>> Brown: ONLINE, WE HAVE MORE
OF THAT RIBBON-CUTTING CEREMONY
AT THE STATUE OF LIBERTY.
HARI SREENIVASAN EXPLAINS.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN WATCH
ALL OF THE RE-OPENING
OF ONE OF THE NATION'S ENDURING
ICONS.
SEE THE VIDEO OF TODAY'S
FESTIVITIES IN NEW YORK HARBOR
ON THE RUNDOWN.
PLUS WE DIG INTO THE NEWSHOUR
ARCHIVES TO HEAR WORDS ABOUT
AMERICA FROM WALT WHITMAN, READ
BY FORMER POET LAUREATE ROBERT
PINSKY.
FIND THAT ON ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH DAVID
BROOKS AND RUTH MARCUS, AMONG
OTHERS.
HAVE A HAPPY FOURTH OF JULY.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.